In this IoT project, I have explained how to make Smart Home with Google Assistant and Alexa using NodeMCU ESP8266 and Sinric Pro. With this NodeMCU ESP8266 project, you can control 3 home appliances with Google Assistant, Alexa, and manual switches. You can also control the relays from Google Home and Amazon Alexa App from anywhere in the world. You can control the relay module from the manual switches if there is no internet available.

And you don’t need any Google Nest or Amazon Echo Dot devices for this voice control home automation project.
With this home automation project, you can control & monitor the real-time feedback of the relays in the Google Home and Alexa App from anywhere in the world. If the WiFi is available, the NodeMCU will automatically connect with the Wi-Fi.
For this project, I have used all the FREE tools. So if you follow all steps, you can easily make this Smart Home System with Google Home and Amazon Alexa to control the appliances with voice commands.

Table of Contents

Circuit of the NodeMCU Home Automation
Required Components for the NodeMCU projects
Affiliate Purchase Links:
Tutorial video on Smart Home with Google & Alexa
Sinric Pro FREE account setup
Program NodeMCU with Arduino IDE
Code for NodeMCU home automation system
NodeMCU control Relays with Alexa App
NodeMCU control Relays with Google Assistant
Control relays manually with Switches
PCB for the NodeMCU Smart Home

The circuit is very simple, I have used D1, D2, D5 & D6 GPIO to control the 4-channel relay module.

And the GPIO SD3, D3, D7 & RX are connected with manual switches to control the relay module manually.

I have used the INPUT_PULLUP function in Arduino IDE instead of using the pull-up resistors with each switch.

As per the source code, when the control pins of the relay module receive the LOW signal the respective relay will turn on and the relay will turn off for the HIGH signal in the control pin.

I have used a 5V 2Amp mobile charger to supply the circuit.

**The Boot will fail if SD3 and D3 are grounded during the Boot process. So manual switch-S1 and switch-S2 must be OFF during NodeMCU Boot.

Now, if you want to use pushbuttons then just connect the pushbuttons across the GPIO pins and GND pin instead of switches.

Required Components for the NodeMCU projects
NodeMCU
4-channel 5V SPDT Relay Module
Manual Switches or Pushbuttons
Amazon Echo Dot (optional)
Google Nest Mini (optional)
